<div style='page-break-after: always; break-after: always;'></div>
# 2: ENERGY

###### Nothing exists without energy.  Everything exists because of the laws of energy.

The topic of energy will be reviewed many times further on, but at this stage it’s only important to point out two types of energy; *kinetic* energy, which is the energy capable of causing change to a system as a result of movement, such as water passing through a turbine in a dam, and *potential* energy, which is the energy that is not moving but is available, such as all the water in the dam that is not yet passing through the turbine.

Where the primal energy came from that created our universe is still, and will probably remain, unanswered, at least by modern science.  Science, mythology, and religion each have their own stories and theories, and, not surprisingly, many of these theories are not that conceptually far apart from each other.  One thing we can say about the energy that created this universe (if we are to believe the first law of thermodynamics that states energy cannot be destroyed or created) is that it existed before the Universe was created.

For our purpose, at least at this moment, the details of these theories or stories don’t matter.  What does matter is the general idea that once energy was introduced into the chaos of the void, something happened.  That “something” was some sort of movement, as that is the undebatable nature of energy; it’s always moving.  This energy moved in accordance with certain laws.  We call these laws the Laws of Physics and the Laws of Nature.

The question then becomes, did these laws exist before creation? Did they exist in the chaotic primal void of nothingness? Well, the reasonable answer is yes&hellip; and no.  “No”, they did not exist in the primal void because these laws only apply where time and space exist, neither of which existed prior to the introduction of energy.  “Yes”, in that these laws must have existed “in theory” &hellip; e.g.  the relation of a circle’s circumference to its radius existed as the constant *pi* (&pi;), or the relationship between a circle and a square is an infinite regression, but as there were no circles or squares it was not measurable&hellip; there was no *instance* of *pi* (&pi;), but there was, for lack of a better word, an archetype of those relationships.

The only place where the potential for anything to exist, including concepts, ideas, or archetypes, is in a place where anything *can* exist; a place where somethingness coexists with nothingness.  0 (which may also equal &infin;) can exist, and &infin; (which may also equal 0) can exist, but unless they commingle there will never be numbers.  When they do mix numbers appear, and with them, laws.  “But!” you may be thinking, “If archetypes can only exist in a duality, and there was not yet a duality before the Big Bang, how could the archetypes have existed?”  That is a very good question, because it would almost appear as though the nothingness from which our duality was formed within must itself have existed within another duality wherein existed these unmanifest archetypes.  This implies that the nothingness from which our existence sprang from was not actually nothingness in it truest sense, but rather a “sea” of uninstantiated possibilities, not unlike the quantum idea that there are an infinite number of “waves”, or *wave functions*, representing an number of potential instances, but until one of those waves *collapses* into form, there is no “thing”.

When speaking of dualities we need to be clear on what we mean, because there are at least two different types of duality.  The first being the duality of *somethingness* and *nothingness*, 1 and 0, and the second being two states of *somethingness*.  Typically, when the term *non-duality* is used it is meant to mean an undivided state, or a state where only one exists.  This is the duality of 1 and 0.  The duality of the two states of *somethingness* refer to such things as positive and negative, yin and yang, or any difference that separates *somethingness*.  This is the duality of our reality, the mundane duality that allows *things* to exist, energy to move, and has states of balance and imbalance.  Some of the properties of the arcane duality of 1 and 0 exist in the mundane duality, just as some of the qualities of a (hypothetical elementary) monopole particle, that has only a north or south pole, and a bipolar particle, that has both.  Thus, before there was the mundane duality of *things*, there was the arcane duality of *somethingness* and *nothingness*, and before that duality, there was simply *nothingness*&hellip; at least within the scope and context of what we call *reality*.  These three concepts appear in many different models of reality.  For example; In one discipline of Judaism they are called the “The Unlimited Light”, “The Unlimited”, and “Nothing”.  In Taoism they are called “The Two”, “The One”, and “The Tao”.  It is from this trinity that everything comes into being.

## Plato, et al

Without getting too much into philosophy here, the idea of archetypal forms is a very Platonic idea.  Plato’s *Theory of ideas* is the hypothesis that everything that exists is a material instance of an ideal version, or perfect idea, of that thing.

It is also a very Kant-ish idea, and a very Locke-ish, Descartes-ish and Hume-ish idea, for all these great thinkers, plus many more, had the understanding in one form or another that *things* were primarily *ideas* first.  Not all philosophers and scientists-of-old agreed, and in the good ol’ days the debate usually boiled down to some form of “is there a god?”[^7] Today, science tends to shy away from the concept of a god, but asks equally impossible questions, such as “is reality a hologram?” or “is existence a simulation?”, etc.  That question is answered in this book, but the answer is as maddening as it is enlightening, and words like “yes” or “no” become meaningless.

For pretty much all of man’s history there has been an archetypal, theoretical, spiritual or mystical concept of a realm of ideas.  In this realm, forms, in their unmanifest, uninstantiated state, are simply ideas.  The perfect cube, for example, is a concept we all can grasp, but whose instances in the material world can only approach.  These archetypal forms follow archetypal laws for if they did not then the relationship between the area of a circle and its radius could just as well be “elephant toes on Tuesday afternoon”, or “cat dog moo”, or any other randomness.

This concept that unmanifest forms are the same as ideas, existing in a non-physical, non-manifest, non-instantiated state, provides a very neat explanation as to the origin and nature of the laws of physics.  Just as physical forms, like the ball and the cube, have their ideal archetypes, the laws of physics and nature have their archetypal forms as well.

The laws of a form and the form itself are not separate things; they are the same thing in two different forms of expression.  Form itself is simply the result of a function, or by-product, of the law as it is expressed within the duality of our reality.  The form *is* the instantiation of the law.  A circle is defined by its law, 2*πr*, and what we see as a circle is an instance of this law.  Laws are the blueprints of form, and forms are the instances of the blueprint.

How do we know that the laws were not derived from the form, rather than the form being derived from the law? This is addressed in more depth further on, but the evidence is that the same laws exist across many forms.  One specific archetype, like that of a cube or a sphere, can have many instances, but a cube or a square cannot have many archetypes.  This puts the laws of form “higher” in the unfolding process of its creation, as the law must exist before the formation or instantiation of the law.  This is additionally supported by the idea that the laws themselves are an expression of energy, the ordering force behind all existence, and therefore a prerequisite to form, be it archetypal or material.

#### **Claim 4:** Levels of order begin with energy, which has laws regarding how it interacts with itself, which form archetypes, which have material instances.

You may be asking “OK, but what if Plato and the gang were wrong?”, but this is not a relevant question because that question assumes that we have access to, or can even grasp, the “ultimate truth”, if one even exists.  Our theories of reality are predictive models based on our understanding and abilities that are valid for the reality we are able to observe.

#### **Claim 5:** All theories are only valid for a level of awareness, a level of knowledge, the context of both of them and the limits of their application.

So, even if Plato is “wrong”, which at some level, at some point, in some reality, has to be true, if his ideas form the basis of understanding that allows us to create abstract concepts that can lead to new, testable understandings, then it is “true” until something better, or *more true*, comes along.  For the record, Aristotle rejected Plato’s ideas of forms and stated that all things can only come into existence via matter.  From the perspective of this book, both can be true, as one deals with the world of archetypes and ideas and the other strictly with materialism.  In both cases of *form* and the *laws of form,* there is one concept that simply expresses itself relative to the context of its scope of either ideas or matter.

Although today we tend to think of Plato’s *Theory of Ideas* as an abstraction, Plato was quite clear that this realm was as real as the realm we exist in every day, the difference being, in the material realm we can never know the true form or idea due to the limitations of material reality.   In Plato’s *Allegory of the Cave,* he describes this reality as limited due to the fact that it is no more than a mere shadow and echo of the true reality (of ideas).  

#### **Claim 6:** Theories and ideas are an archetype in their own right, but like forms, they have their own archetypes.

#### **Claim 7:** Every thing that exists is an instance of an archetype.  Archetypes of form and the laws of those archetypes are the same things.  What we call archetypes of form are the results of these laws.  What we see in our reality are the instantiations of those archetypes.

<hr>

[^7]: This idea, and much more, is discussed at length in a 89 volume edition of great works that question the nature of existence.  Glattfelder, James B.  Information, **Consciousness, Reality: How a New Understanding of the Universe Can Help Answer Age-Old Questions of Existence**.  Cham: Springer International Publishing, 2019. Available online at <https://link.springer.com/bookseries/5342>


