The implication here is that tholonic interactions can also release energy and that tholonic structures *could* be broken or altered by an outside force that has enough energy.



If we are claiming this RC circuit is tholonic in nature, then what is the *white dot*, the 4^th^ point needed to create a tetrahedron? It would be the *charge*. As archetypes, the electron has a charge of -1 and correlates to C, and the proton has a charge of +1 and correlates to D.  This defines the spectrum or field of new *n*-states. Together they have a *charge* of 0, which is the charge of the neutron which is represented as the N-state.  This trinity of 0 + -1 + 1 is the 4^th^ point can coexist with all 3 other points.   Consequently, it holds the same PP  of other *white dot*, such as power and energy, and as we show in the next section, gravity and consciousness.


<hr>

This opens the idea that were tholonic principles to be applied to such systems as society, law, ethics, etc., there could be predictable times to achieve specific goals following specific rules of how to achieve those goals.  It also shows how economics is not a man-made concept, but an natural and organic system that we humans are simply the channel of expression for.  This is the &ldquo;invisible hand&rdquo; 18th Century Scottish economist and philosopher Adam Smith, a.k.a  the &ldquo;Father of Economics&rdquo; or &ldquo;Father of Capitalism&rdquo;, referred to when he described the unobservable market force that helps the demand and supply of goods in a free market to reach equilibrium automatically.[^75] More recently, this has been referred to as &ldquo;Complexity Economics&rdquo;,[^76] and is so compatible with the tholonic model that it is perhaps the best explanation of the tholonic process (within the context of society and economics).



page 3
