CONTACTS:



Stuart Kaufmann

https://www.amazon.com/Investigations-Stuart-Kauffman/dp/0195121058



<hr>



There is also an interesting relationship with the One Electron Theory.  This is a theory that theoretical physicist John Wheeler proposed (in a phone call at 2AM in 1940 with Richard Feynman) that there was just one electron in existence, and that all electrons were the same electron! This would be possible if that one electron was not subject to space-time, allowing it to be in all places simultaneously.  Wheeler also claimed that not only are all electrons the same electron, but all positrons are also the same electron moving backward in time.  As an electron it has a charge of -1, and as a positron it has a charge of +1.

The problem was, there was no space for a positron in the current model of the electron. In order to account for all the electrons in the universe, this one electron would have to move backward in time at least one time less than the number of electrons moving forward.  The thologram has a similar quality in that there is always one additional in each iteration of real tholons then there is virtual tholons.

If Wheeler’s idea was correct, then there should be almost as many positrons in the universe as electrons, but there aren’t.  Wheeler suggested that the missing positrons might be hidden within protons.  This idea does not work with the current theory that a proton consists of only two up quarks, each with a charge of +2/3, and one down quark with a charge of -1/3, as there is simply no place in the proton where a positron, with a charge of +1, could hide.

However, in the tholonic model, there *is* a place for the positron to hide, and that is in the virtual space of a tholon.  As was previously mentioned, there can be real tholons within virtual tholons.  As this virtual space also acts as a reflection for the other three trigrams of a tholon, it would act as the source of the positive charge of the reflection tholon’s *child* tholon.  So, if the positron were to “hide” in the virtual space of the reflection tholon its charge of +1 would neutralize the -1 charge of the reflection tholon, which would presumably have sort of (testable?) effect on the real tholon.

This may sound ridiculous, but science has already proven that if you fill some small part of empty space with enough energy, electrons and positrons will magically appear out of nothing, or as it was described in a New Scientist report, “Lasers Could Make Virtual Particles Real”.  [^72]





[^72]: Shiga, David. “**Lasers Could Make Virtual Particles Real.**” *New Scientist*, 17 Aug. 2010, www.newscientist.com/article/dn19327-lasers-could-make-virtual-particles-real/. Full PDF of "Physical Review Letter" available at https://www.researchgate.net/publication/46424619_Limitations_on_the_Attainable_Intensity_of_High_Power_Lasers/link/0deec517bda95ef500000000/download.

<hr>

[^190]: Emoto, Masaru. **The True Power of Water: Healing and Discovering Ourselves**. Beyond Words Pub., 2005.;Emoto, Masaru. **Messages from Water and the Universe.** Hay House, 2010.; Emoto, Masaru. **Messages from Water: The First Pictures of Frozen Water Crystals.** Hado Publishing, 2004.

<hr>



There are other examples of such rules and relationships which are nicely “exemplified” in such things as holograms and fractals, [^186]^,^  [^187]but here we are only looking at a much simpliear rule.



[^186]: Talbot, Michael, and Lynne McTaggart. **The Holographic Universe: The Revolutionary Theory of Reality**. New York, NY: Harper Perennial, 2011.
[^187]: Wilber, Ken. **The Holographic Paradigm**. Shambhala;1982

<hr>

The implication here is that tholonic interactions can also release energy and that tholonic structures *could* be broken or altered by an outside force that has enough energy.



If we are claiming this RC circuit is tholonic in nature, then what is the *white dot*, the 4^th^ point needed to create a tetrahedron? It would be the *charge*. As archetypes, the electron has a charge of -1 and correlates to C, and the proton has a charge of +1 and correlates to D.  This defines the spectrum or field of new *n*-states. Together they have a *charge* of 0, which is the charge of the neutron which is represented as the N-state.  This trinity of 0 + -1 + 1 is the 4^th^ point can coexist with all 3 other points.   Consequently, it holds the same PP  of other *white dot*, such as power and energy, and as we show in the next section, gravity and consciousness.


<hr>

This opens the idea that were tholonic principles to be applied to such systems as society, law, ethics, etc., there could be predictable times to achieve specific goals following specific rules of how to achieve those goals.  It also shows how economics is not a man-made concept, but an natural and organic system that we humans are simply the channel of expression for.  This is the “invisible hand” 18th Century Scottish economist and philosopher Adam Smith, a.k.a  the “Father of Economics” or “Father of Capitalism”, referred to when he described the unobservable market force that helps the demand and supply of goods in a free market to reach equilibrium automatically.[^75] More recently, this has been referred to as “Complexity Economics”,[^76] and is so compatible with the tholonic model that it is perhaps the best explanation of the tholonic process (within the context of society and economics).



page 3
